
https://blog.floydhub.com/a-beginners-guide-on-recurrent-neural-networks-with-pytorch/
https://blog.floydhub.com/long-short-term-memory-from-zero-to-hero-with-pytorch/


ToDo's:

https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/notebooks/03_reformer.ipynb
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Word2Vec Intro:

In mathematics, the concept of vector is closely related to geometry. For example, in a 2D plane, a vector (x, y) represents
the coordinate of a point. More generally, the vector  represents a point in the n-dimensional space. Therefore in a 
distributed representation, each word is represented by a vector of length n, which corresponds to a point in the n-D space.

Since word semantics are quite complex, it is very difficult to partition different regions in the n-D space to represent
different types of words. But we can leverage an important concept in geometry: distance. A reasonable word embedding should
map two semantically similar words to two close-by points, and map two irrelevant words to two points far apart. It follows 
that in the distributed representation, searching for synonyms of a word entails looking for word vectors near its embedded 
point.

In addition to incorporating semantic information, distributed representation has a fixed length of word vector, which makes
 following procedures more convenient. As a result, most NLP methods employ the distributed representation for word vectors.

However, it is not always easy to obtain a distributed representation of high quality. It often requires careful mathematical
modeling and a large text corpus. In the next section, we will describe in detail a popular distributed representation method:
word2vec.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Different Types of Normalization:
Batch Normalization:
	Batch Normalization focuses on standardizing the inputs to any particular layer(i.e. activations from previous layers). 
Standardizing the inputs mean that inputs to any layer in the network should have approximately zero mean and unit variance.
Mathematically, BN layer transforms each input in the current mini-batch by subtracting the input mean in the current mini-batch
and dividing it by the standard deviation.

	But each layer doesn’t need to expect inputs with zero mean and unit variance, but instead, probably the model might perform
better with some other mean and variance. Hence the BN layer also introduces two learnable parameters γ and β.

The whole layer operation is as follows. It takes an input x_i and transforms it into y_i as described in the below eqns.
		
		u-b =  (1/m)* summ{1 to N}(xi)
		
		sigma-b = (1/m) * summ{1 to N}(xi-ub)^2
			
		xi = (xi - ub)/sqrt(sigma-b^2+Epsilon)
		
		yi = gamma*(xi) + Beta ~ BN{gamma,beta}(xi)
		
The question is how BN helps NN training? Intuitively, In gradient descent, the network calculates the gradient based on the
current inputs to any layer and reduce the weights in the direction indicated by the gradient. But since the layers are stacked
one after the other, the data distribution of input to any particular layer changes too much due to slight update in weights 
of earlier layer, and hence the current gradient might produce suboptimal signals for the network. But BN restricts the 
distribution of the input data to any particular layer(i.e. the activations from the previous layer) in the network, which helps
the network to produce better gradients for weights update. Hence BN often provides a much stable and accelerated training 
regime.

Cons:

BN calculates the batch statistics(Mini-batch mean and variance) in every training iteration, therefore it requires larger batch
sizes while training so that it can effectively approximate the population mean and variance from the mini-batch. This makes BN
harder to train networks for application such as object detection, semantic segmentation, etc because they generally work with 
high input resolution(often as big as 1024x 2048)and training with larger batch sizes is not computationally feasible.
		
Weight Normalization:
	
	Their idea is to decouple the length from the direction of the weight vector and hence reparameterize the network to speed up
the training.

	The authors of the Weight Normalization paper suggested using two parameters g(for length of the weight vector) and v(the 
direction of the weight vector) instead of w for gradient descent in the following manner.
	 
	 w =  (g/||v||)*v
	 
Weight Normalization speeds up the training similar to batch normalization and unlike BN, it is applicable to RNNs as well. 
But the training of deep networks with Weight Normalization is significantly less stable compared to Batch Normalization and
hence it is not widely used in practice.

Layer Normalization
	Inspired by the results of Batch Normalization, Geoffrey Hinton et al. proposed Layer Normalization which normalizes the 
activations along the feature direction instead of mini-batch direction. This overcomes the cons of BN by removing the dependency
on batches and makes it easier to apply for RNNs as well.

	In essence, Layer Normalization normalizes each feature of the activations to zero mean and unit variance.
	
Group Normalization
	
	Similar to layer Normalization, Group Normalization is also applied along the feature direction but unlike LN, it divides the
features into certain groups and normalizes each group separately. In practice, Group normalization performs better than layer
normalization, and its parameter num_groups is tuned as a hyperparameter.

If you find BN, LN, GN confusing, the below image summarizes them very precisely. Given the activation of shape (N, C, H, W), 
BN normalizes the N direction, LN and GN normalize the C direction but GN additionally divides the C channels into groups and 
normalizes the groups individually.

Weight Standarization:
	Weight Standardization is transforming the weights of any layer to have zero mean and unit variance. This layer could be a 
convolution layer, RNN layer or linear layer, etc. For any given layer with shape(N, *) where * represents 1 or more dimensions,
weight standardization, transforms the weights along the * dimension(s).

Regularization:

	Neural Nets are models with huge number of parameters! Regularization!.
	
	A full loss function includes regularization over all parameters (theta) eg. L2 Regularization.
	
	Regularization works to prevent overfitting when we have a lot of features(or a very powerful/deep model etc;)
	
DropOut(A form of Regularization):

	50% of connections are dropped out so the features that are mostly dependant will be cancelled out so they won't play a 
decision.

Parameter Initialization(Weight Initialization):

	Initialize all other weights - Uniform(-r,r) with r chosen so numbers get neither too big or too small[later this need is 
removed by using layer normalization] 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sequence to Sequence task models:

		Seq2Seq models are a special class of Recurrent Neural Network architectures typically used to 
solve complex language problems like Machine Translation, Question Answering, creating Chat Bots and
Text Summarization etc;

	Types:
		1. One to One   - Vanilla Mode of RNN fixed sized input to Fixed sized output.(Image Classification).
		2. One to Many  - Sequence Output(eg. Image Captioning takes an image and outputs a sentence of words).
		3. Many to One  - Sequence Inputs(eg. Sentiment Analysis - given sentence classified as expressing positive or negative).
		4. Many to Many - Sequence Input and Output (eg. Machine Translation - RNN reads a sentence in english and outputs a sentence in French).
		5. Synced Many to Many - Synced Sequence Input and Output(eg.Video Classification - we label each frame of the video).
	
	
Encoder-Decoder Architecture:

		1. Both the encoder and decoder are typically LSTM Models,GRU Models or transformers.
		2. Encoder reads the input sequence and summarizes the information in something called the
internal state vectors(hidden and output cell state vectors). We discard the outputs of the encoder
and only preserve the internal states.
		3. Decoder in an LSTM whose initial states are initialized to the final states of the encoder
LSTM. Using these initial states, decoder starts generating the output sequence.
		4. The decoder behaves differently during training and inference procedure. During the 
training, we use a technique called the teacher forcing which helps to train the decoder faster.During
inference, the input to the decoder at each time step is the output from the previous step.
		5. Intuitively, the encoder summarizes the input sequences into state vectors (sometimes called
as the thought vectors). which are then fed to the decoder which starts generating the output sequence
given the thought vectors. The decoder is just a language model conditioned on the initial states.

Encoder LSTM:-
		
		
Attention Mechanism:

			The attention mechanism in Deep Learning is based on the concept of directing focus and it pays
greater attention to certain factors when processing the data.

		Attention is one component of the network's architecture and is in charge of managing and 
quantifying the interdependence:
		1. Between the input and output elements(General Attention).
		2. Within the input elements(Self Attention).

Example: Working of Attention Mechanism in a translation task:-
"How was your day?" - English to "Comment se passe ta journee" - French. The attention component of the
network maps the important and relavant words from the input sentence and assigns higher importance weights
to these words, enhancing the accuracy of the output prediction.


		    The standard seq2seq model is generally unable to accurately process long input sequences,
since, only the last hidden state of the encoder RNN is given as the context vector for the decoder. On 
the other hand, the Attention mechanism directly addresses this issue as it retains and utilizes all the 
hidden states of the input sequence during the decoding process. It does this by creating a unique mapping
between each time step of the decoder output to all encoder hidden states.This means for each output that
the decoder makes, it has access to the entire input sequence and can selectively pick out specific elements
from that sequence to produce the output.
			Therefore, the mechanism allows the model to focus more attention to relevant parts of the 
input sequence as needed. There are two different attention mechanisms:
		1. Bahandau Attention.
		2. Luong Attention.

(https://blog.floydhub.com/attention-mechanism/) - Attention Mechanism Blog.

Bahandau Attention:-
			Commenly referred to as Additive Attention.The step by step process of applying Bahdnau Attention
is as follows:
			1. Producing Encoder hidden states: Enc produces hidden state for each element in the sequence.
			2. Calculating Alignment scores: between previous decoder hidden state and each of the encoder
hidden states are calculated.(Note:- Previous encoder hidden state can be used as first hidden state of the
starting decoder.)
			3. Softmaxing Alignment scores: The alignment scores of each of the encoder hidden states are
combined and represented in a single vector and subsequently softmaxed.
			4. Calculating Context Vector: The encoder hidden states and their respective alignment scores
are multiplied to form the context vector.
			5. Decoding the output: The context vector is concatenated with the previous decoder output and
fed into the decoder RNN for that time step along with the previous decoder hidden state to produce a new
output.
			6. The process repeats itself for each time step of the decoder until a token is produced or 
output is past the specified maximum length.

Luong Attention:-
			Commonly referred to as Multiplicative Attention.It was built on top of Bahandau Attention and
main differences between them are:
			1. The way that the alignment scores are calculated.
			2. The position in which attention mechanism is being introduced in the decoder.
There are three types of alignment scoring functions proposed in Luong's paper compared to Bahdnau one'type
Also the general structure of the Attention decoder is different for luong attention as the context vector
is utilized only after the RNN produced the output for that time step.The step by step process is as 
follows:

		1. Producing Encoder Hidden states: Encoder produces hidden states of each element in the input
sequence.
		2. Decoder RNN: The previous decoder output and decoder hidden state is passed through the decoder
RNN to generate a new hidden state for that time step.
		3. Calculating Alignment scores: using the new decoder hidden state and the encoder hidden state
the alignment scores are calculated.
		4. Softmaxing the ALignment scores: The alignment scores of each encoder hidden state are combined
and represented in a single vector and subsequently softmaxed.
		5. Calculate Context Vector: the encoder hiddens states and their respective alignment scores are
multiplied to form the context vector.
		6. Decoding the Output: The context vector is concatenated with the decoder output hidden state
generated in step 2 is passed through a fully connected layer to produce a new output.
		7. The process(steps 2 to 6) repeats itself for each time step of the decoder until an token or
output is past the specified maximum length.

From the different steps seen above, Luong Attention is calculated differently from Bahandau Attention.


Transformers: 	

		Doing away with cluncky for-loops, the transformers instead finds a way to allow whole sentences
to simultaneously enter the network in batches.The input to the encoder will be the English sentence and
the outputs from the decoder will be the French sentence.

In effect, there are five processes that we need to understand to implement this model:
		1. Encoding the inputs. Embedding input matrix shape - [sentence length * embedding dimension(512)].
		2. The Positional Encodings. 
		3. Creating Masks.
		4. The Multi Head Attention Layer. - Query,Key,Values shape - [sentence length * splitted embedding dimension(64)]
		5. The Feed Forward Layer.
Embedding: 
		Embedding words has become a standard practice in NMT, feeding the network with more information 
than one hot encoding.

Giving our words context: The positional Encoding.
		In order for the model to make sense of the sentence, it needs to know two things about the word:
1. what does the word mean? 2. And what is its position in the sentence?
		The embedding vector will learn about the meaning of the words, so we need to input something that
tells the network about the word's position. Vasmari et al answered this problem by using the below funcs
to create a constant of position specific values:
		PE(pos,2i)   =  sin(pos/10000^(2*i/d_model))  
		PE(pos,2i+1) =  cos(pos/10000^(2*i/d_model))
This constant is 2d matrix.Pos refers to order in the sentence and i refers to the position along the
embedding vector dimension. Each value in the pos/i matrix is then worked out using the equations above.


Self Attention Mechanism:

	step1: Compute dot product between Query and transpose of key matrix - to determine the importance
between relevant words in the sentence.
	step2: Take the dot product result and divide it by the square root of the dimension of key matrix
ie. sqrt(dK)
	step3: Normalize the result with softmax function. Finally we calculate the attention matrix Z by
multiplying the score matrix [softmax(Q.K(t)/sqrt(dK))] with the Value Matrix V.

PreTraining on NLP Models:

Most of the modern day NLP systems follow a new approach for training new models for various use cases and
that is first pre-train and then fine-tune approach.Here, the goal of pre-training is to leverage large
amount of unlabeled texts and build a general model of language understanding before being fine tuned on
various task specific work like Machine Translation, text summarization etc;

There is two popular pre-training schemes in language tasks, they are:
			1. Masked Language Model(MLM).
			2. Casual Language Model(CLM).
			
Masked Language Model:-
	Under Masked Language Modelling, we typically mask a certain % of words in a given sentence and the
model is expected to predict those masked words based on other words in the sentence. this model is
bidirectional in nature since it can peek in both forward and backward direction. You can visualize this
like a fill-in-blanks kind of problem.

	Here the representation of the masked word could be attention based as in BERT(Bidirectional Encoder
Representations from Transformers). Based on the distribution of alpha(attention weights) you can weigh 
the representation of other input word with respective to the masked word representation. eg. alpha=1 
gives equal weight to the surrounding words(meaning every other word will have equal contribution to the
Masked representation.)

Casual Language Model:-
	Under CLM, the idea is to predict masked token in a given sentence, but unlike MLM the model is allowed
to consider only the words in the left side(ie. previous words) or only on the right side(ie. next words)
Such a training scheme makes this model unidirectional.

	Based on the prediction made by the model against the actual label, we calculate cross entropy loss
and backpropagate it to train the model parameters. Here the representation of the masked word could be
attention based as in GPT(Generative Pre-trained Transformer).Based on the distribution of alpha
(attention weights) we can weigh the representation of every other word for learning the representation
of the masked word eg. alpha=1 would give equal weight to surrounding words(meaning that every word will
hold equal importance to learn the masked representation).

MLM loss is preferred when the goal is to learn a good representation of the input document, CLM is mostly
preferred when we wish to learn a system that generates fluent text.
			

Text Corpora: Corpus is a very large collection of text and used to analyse how words, phrases and language
in general are used.
Types:- 1. Monolingual Corpus - one language 2. MultiLingual Corpus - multiple language. 


Transformer Model Types:

			PreTraining - Self Supervised (The models does not need labels for its pretraining).
			Fine Tuning - Transfer Learning the weights of the pretrained model to a new model by initializing
the second model with the weights of the first model and fine tune the models by training with the specific
dataset.	
			
			1. Auto Regressive Models - Also called the decoder models these use only the decoder of the 
transformers. At each stage, for a given word the attention layers can only access the words positioned
before it in the sentence. These models are also called as the autoregressive models.

	The pretraining of decoder models involves predicting the next word in the given sentence. These models
are best suited for tasks involving text generation.
Models: GPT,GPT-2,Transformer XL,CTRL
			
			2. Auto Encoding Models -  Also called as the encoder models these use only the encoder of the
transformers.These models have bidirectional attention and at each stage the attention layers can access 
all the words in the initial sentence and by masking some of the random words in the sentence and tasking
the model with finding or reconstructing the initial sentence.
			These models are best suited for tasks requiring an understanding of the full sentence, such 
as sentence classification, named entity recognition, and extractive question answering.
Models: ALBERT,BERT,DistilBERT,ELECTRA,RoBERTa
			
			3. Sequence-Sequence Transformer Models -  Encoder Decoder Models use both parts of the 
transformer architecture. At each stage the attention layers of the encoder can access all the words in 
the initial sentence, whereas the attention layers of the decoder can only access the words positioned 
before a given word in the input.
			The pretraining of the models can be done by using the objective of the encoder and decoder
models, but usually involves something a bit complex. For instance, T5 is pretrained by replacing some
random spans of text(that contain several words) with a single mask special word, and the objective is to
predict the text that this mask word replaces.
		
			These models are best suited for tasks involving generating new sentences depending on a given
input, such as summarization, translation, or generative question answering.

Models: BART,mBART,T5,Marian.



Vision Transformer:

		https://theaisummer.com/hugging-face-vit/

Problem Statement:

	For eg. monkey in a image moved from left part of the image to right part while predicting for object
detection which means different trainable parameters are responsible for firing when the monkey appears. As
a consequence, the same reasoning needs to be performed, and thus learned for different subsets of parameters
corresponding to different locations. This is a tremendous waste of computation,representation and requires
the network to relearn the same reasoning again and again, multiple times. This will also hurt the 
generalization performance of the model.

Translational Invariance:
 
	Translation invariance requires that output of a mapping/network does not change when the input is 
translated( predictions of the network doesn't change when the object in the image changes its position).
This is possible to acheive approximately upto a certain amount but not directly. 

Translation Equivariance(Related property but not the same):
	A Translational equivariant mapping is a mapping, which when the input is translated, leads to a 
translated feature mapping. eg: when the input image( a digit taken from mnist dataset and embedded in
a larger canvas) is translated by a certain amount, the output feature map is translated by the same
amount.
     A stack of convolutions produce equivariant mapping. however, they are not invariant, an approximately
translational invariance can be achieved in neural networks by combining convolutional layers with spatial 
pooling operators.

LongFormer(The Long Document Transformer):

		Transformer based models are unable to process long sequences due to their self attention mecha-
nism which scales quadratically with the sequence length. To address this limitation we introduce the 
longformer with an attention mechanism that scales linearly with sequence length, making it easy to process
documents of thousands of tokens or longer. Longformer attention mechanism is a drop-in replacement for 
standard self-attention and combines a local windowed attention with a task motivated global attention.

		The attention mechanism allows the model to enrich each token representation with information from
anywhere else in the sequence, which is at the core of Transformer model success. To process a sequence of
n tokens requires n^2 attention calculations for each attention head during a forward pass.

Language Modelling:

	-> Probablistic Language Models have the learning objective of predicting the following tokens in a
sequence.The probability distribution for sequences of tokens[x1,x2,x3,...,xn] is achieved by factorizin
the joint probability into conditional probabilities by using the chain rule of probability.

	-> The maximum likelihood objective decomposes into a sequence of prediction problem for each term
in the sequence given the previous terms. If these observations are discrete, the prediction can be made
using neural network that outputs a probability distribution over all tokens using a softmax activation
function. Autoregressive models are only sequential in nature.

Autoregressive Language Modelling:

		ALM is also called left to right language modelling, is the task of predicting the next token,
either word or character, given the left context. How well a model performs can be evaluated by a metric
is called Bits Per Character(BPC), the average log loss measured in base two for the correct token. 

The GLUE benchmark score is one example of broader, multi task evaluation for language models. Difference
between cross entropy and BPC:

Entropy:
		The goal of any language model is to convey information. To measure the average amount of information
conveyed in the message, we use a metric called entropy. Meaning of entropy in language modelling is different
from thermodynamics concept:
		The entropy is a statistical parameter which measures in certain sense, how much information is 
produced on average for each letter of text in the language. If the language is translated into binary
digits(0 or 1) in the most efficient way, the entropy is the average number of binary digits required per
letter of the original language.
		Fn = - Summ(p(bn)*log2p(bn))
		
Cross Entropy:
		Owing to the fact that there lacks an infinite amount of text in the language L, the true distri
bution (P) of the language is unknown. A language model aims to learn, from the sample text, a distribu
tion (Q) close to the emprical distribution (P) of the language. In order to measure the closeness of 
the two distributions, cross entropy is often used. Mathematically cross entropy of Q with respect to P
is defined as follows:
			H(P,Q) = Ep[-logQ]
				   = - Summ(P(x)*log(Q(x))
				   = - Summ(P(x)*[logP(x)+log(Q(x))-log(P(x))])
				   = - Summ(P(x)*log(P(x))) - Summ(P(x)*log(Q(x)/P(x)))
				   = H(P) + Dkl(P||Q)
			Dkl(P||Q) = Kullback-Leibler(KL) Divergence between P and Q also known as relative entropy of
P with respect to Q. it should be noted that emprical entropy H(P) is unoptimizable, when we train a 
language model with the objective of minimizing the cross entropy loss, the true objective is to minimize
the KL divergence of the distribution, which was learned by our model from the emprical distribution of
the language.

Perplexity:
		A measurement of how well a probability distribution or probability model predicts a sample.
Intuitively, perplexity can be understood as a measure of uncertainity. The perplexity of a language 
model can be seen as the perplexity when predicting the following symbol. Consider a language model with
an entropy of three bits, in which each bit encodes two possible outcomes of equal probability. This means
that when predicting the next symbol, that language model has to choose among 2^3 = 8 options. Thus, we
can argue that this model has a perplexity of 8.

		PPL(P,Q) = 2^H(P,Q)

Bits Per Character(BPC) and Bits Per Word(BPW):
		
		Bits per Character (BPC) measures the average number of bits needed to encode on character. This
leads to revisit Shannons explanation of entropy of language:
		
		"If the language is translated into binary digits(0 or 1) in the most efficient way, the entropy
is the average number of binary digits required per letter of the original language".

By this definition, entropy is the average number of BPC. For word level language models, the quantity is
called bits-per-word (BPW) - the average number of words required to encode a word. It is imperative to 
reflect on what we know mathematically about entropy and cross entropy. Firstly, we know smallest possible
entropy for any distribution is zero. However, the entropy of a language can only be zero if that language
has exactly one symbol.
			min H(P) = -1 * log(1) = 0

If a language has two characters that appear with equal probability, a binary system for instance, its 
entropy would be:
			H(P) = -0.5*log(0.5)-0.5*log(0.5) = 1

Secondly, we know that entropy of a probability distribution is maximized when its uniform. This gives the
fact that for all languages sharing the same set of symbols(vocabulary), the language that has the maximal
entropy is the one in which all the symbols share the same set of equal probability.

			H(P) = -((|V|*(1/|V|))*log(1/|V|)) = log|V| = log(27) = 4.27
for english vocabulary - 26 letters with space.

				
Receptive Field of CNN:
		It is the region in the input tensor space that a particular CNN's feature is affected by. it is 
the part of a tensor that after convolution results in a feature.So basically, it gives us an idea of where
we're getting our results from as data flows through the network.


XLNet:

Blog:
https://towardsdatascience.com/xlnet-a-clever-language-modeling-solution-ab41e87798b0

Predecessors: Transformer-XL and BERT.

	->Generalized Autoregressive Pretraining for language understanding is an autoregressive language
model based on Transformer-XL architecture that has acheived state of the art performance on different 
NLP Tasks.

	-> proposes permutation language modelling to extract bidirectional representations while avoiding
disadvantages of using data corruption methods in BERT. The trade-off is model is more resource expensive 
and requires more computation power. XLNet performs better in longer sequences and may underperform on
shorter sequences.

Limitations of Vanilla Transformer:

	-> The model can only learn for tokens within the segment length and cannot use tokens that appeared 
several sequences ago. The segment length limits the advantage of using attention. 	

	-> Fixed-length segments that exceed the upper bound of segement length are trained seperately from
the scratch. The tokens used to seperate segments ie. the first tokens of each segment offer little to 
no context for the remaining tokens. This behaviour is called as context fragmentation and leads to 
inefficient training, which might impact model performance.

The transformer-XL builds on top of the vanilla transformer and introduces two techniques to overcome the
limitations mentioned earlier:

	1. Segment level Recurrence Mechanism
	2. Relative Positional Encoding.
	
Transformer-XL:

	The segment level recurrence mechanism addresses context fragmentation. During training, transformer-XL
caches the hidden state of the previous segement and uses it as an extended context for when the model 
processes the next segment. The gradient is still within the scope of the segment, but additional inputs
allows the network to include historical information. This is similar to back-propagation through time 
but instead of caching the last hidden sequence of the sequence, the hidden sequences of current states is
used.

	Relative Positional Encoding is used to persist the positional information for the hidden states of the
previous segments. The positional encoding in the vanilla transformer is lost in the hidden state computation.
eg: the tokens from the different segments could have the same positional encoding, although their position
and importance across segments are different.

The encoding involves three changes to the attention score computation:
	
	1. Replacing the absolute positional encoding with its relative counterpart.
	2. Replacing the query term with a position-independant trainable parameter.
	3. Seperate the weight vectors for producing the content-based and location-based key vectors.
	
This parameterization is applied to each attention module as opposed to applying a position embedding before
the first layer and this technique accounts for the relative distance between the tokens instead of their
absolute position.

	-> Transformer-XL outperforms transformers and RNN's. However autoregressive language modelling is not
able to capture deep bidirectional contextual information like BERT. BERT is an autoencoding pretraining
approach that uses data corruption. Autoencoding in this context means ability to reconstruct original data
from a corrupted input. BERT uses bidirectional information to reconstruct partially masked sequences leading
to improved performance when compared to the Transformer. However, BERT and the autoencoding approach in
general has limitations. 

Limitations of BERT:

	-> Through the use of data corruption ie. masking during pretraining and fine-tuning on actual unmasked
data, a discrepancy arises between pre-training and fine-tuning. Furthermore, by avoiding the sequence 
dependancies (as in autoregressive modelling) BERT cannot model with high-order long-range dependancies 
because it assumes the predicted masked tokens independant of each other given the unmasked tokens.

	-> The dependence of the masked tokens for pretraining is mitigated by randomly choosing out of the 
selected tokens to be masked they are replaced with one of the following three options:
		1.	The [MASK] Token (80% of the time).
		2.	A Random Token (10% of the time).
		3.	The original Token (10% of the time).
		
	-> XLNet uses the best of both the auto-encoding and auto-regressive language models to overcome  
both of their limitations and improve above the BERT's performance.

How DOes XLNet WOrks?:

	Permutations: XLNet improves upon BERT performance by capturing the bidirectional context capture while
avoiding data corruption and parallel independant predictions. It does this by introducing the variant of
language modelling called "permutation language-modelling". The order of next-token prediction is not left
to right and is sampled randomly instead. This drives the model to learn all the dependencies between diff
combinations of input, thus modeling the bidirectional dependencies.
	
	-> In permutation language modeling, the actual order of the input sequence is not changing, only the
order in which the tokens are predicted. We can choose which input tokens to mask and positional embeddings
to retain the positional information. 

	-> Therefore, input tokens are fed into the model in an arbitrary order, and provided the positional
embedding are consistent; the model can figure out the actual order of the tokens.
	
	-> BERT predicts all the masked tokens simultaneously and relies on positional encoding to maintain 
the correct ordering of the tokens. XLNet, on the other hand learns to predict the words in arbitrary 
order and it is forced to model directionality in the prediction ie.(only one possible permutation is 
is considered for the sentence out of all the possible combinations order encountered during training).

	-> XLNet uses the positional embedding and recurrence mechanism of Transformer-XL to persist the 
hidden state information from previous segments while performing permutation language modelling in the 
current segment. While the permutation language modelling objective is beneficial for language understanding
it causes slow convergence on preliminary experiments. To improve optimization, the model is trained to 
predict only a part of the sequence. For tokens not selected for prediction their positional information
is not calculated which saves speed and memory.

	-> XLNet is able to extract more dependancy pairs given the same target and thus obtain denser effective
training signals.

Two-Stream Self Attention:
	->Implementing permutation language modelling with the vanilla transformer model leads to position
independant hidden representations. The next token probability distribution produced by the model needs 
to be made target position aware. Two stream self attention involves two hidden representations for the
attention mechanism to achieve position awareness.

	->The query stream provides positional information but masks the target token for pretraining. The
model is trained to predict each token in the sequence using data from the query stream. The content stream
contains the original positional and token embedding. it encodes all the available contextual information 
for tokens upto the current token. The content stream serves as input to the query stream.

	->eg: "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog." Consider predicting the word fox in the example.
the previous words provided in the permutation are over and dog. the content stream would encode the 
positional information for words "over" and "dog". The query stream encodes the positional information
for "fox" and uses the information from the content stream to predict the word fox.

	-> During the fine tuning process, only the content stream is used as the text representation.
	
T5 Transformer(Transfer Learning on Text to Text Transformer):

https://colab.research.google.com/github/google-research/text-to-text-transfer-transformer/blob/main/notebooks/t5-trivia.ipynb#scrollTo=zSeyoqE7WMwu

Regular Expression in Python:

BART - Foods and Events Summary


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


1. Companies la how can we apply
2. what do they look for in a candidate
3. what sort of profile we need to build and do we need to do any certifications
4. what difficulties you faced during job search
5. how difficult were the interviews you gave
6. Do we need to maintain a cover letter for companies.
7. Projects how we need to showcase.
8. how to build our profile and show improvisation.
9. when do we need to apply for companies?



